Is the scheme voluntary or compulsory?
The scheme is mandatory and compulsory for all residents in the State.

In the case of Civil Servant, how much is being deducted and how much is the Government adding on monthly basis?
For Public Servants/Formal Sector, 1.5% is being deducted from their salary while the state government adds 3%, this serves as their premium until their retirement.

In the informal sector, how much does it cost an individual to enroll, and that of a family?
For the general Public or Informal Sector. The sum of ₦ 12, 066 is charged for an individual, while ₦ 57, 600 is charged for family of 6 (father, mother and four biological children or legally adopted under the age of 18) for one year.

When is the expiring date of OHIS CARDS? For the Public Servants (Formal sector)?
OHIS cards for civil servants expires on the date of their retirement, it is the same with their spouse. For their children, it is when they reach the age of 18.

When is the expiring date of OHIS Cards for informal sector (General Public)?
OHIS cards for Informal Sector expire after one year of registration.

How long does it take an enrollee to start receiving treatment, after registration?
For civil servant, accessing health care takes immediate effect. For the informal sector accessing health care starts after 45 of enrolment

Is it possible for an enrollee to change his/her Health Care Provider (Hospital) ?
Yes, it is possible after 6 months; the enrollee will visit OHIS Headquarters at Ogo-Oluwa to complete necessary forms on the process.

How many dependants are allowed for a principal enrollee, in the formal sector?
For civil servants, Principal enrollee is entitled to 5 dependants, spouse and 4 biological/legally adopted children.

Who are HMOs and TPAs? What are their roles in OHIS operations?
Health Management Organizations, TPAs Third Party Administrators. They are the OHIS representatives spread across the 9 Federal constituencies in the state. HMOs/TPAs handle cases on behalf of OHIS; they solve various problems encountered by OHIS enrollees. They perform publicity marketing and enrollment activities for the Agency. HMOs also perform Quality assurance claims management and pre-authorize of referrals from PCP to SCP.
If Primary Care Provider chosen by an enrollee cannot handle his health condition, as a result of complications,
will happen?
The PCP will refer the enrollee or his/her dependent to a higher healthcare facility, SCP. This is normally handled by the TPAs/HMOs through code generation.

Are enrollees expected to pay any money when accessing care?
Only the 10% of the cost of drugs administered during treatment will be paid.

Is it possible for an enrollee to change his/her Health Care Provider (Hospital) ?
Yes, it is possible after 6 months; the enrollee will visit OHIS Headquarters at Ogo-Oluwa to complete necessary forms on the process.

In the informal Sector if a man has more than one wife, what happens to others, since the scheme accommodates only one wife and four (4) biological or legally adopted children, not more than 18 years old?
Only one legally married wife is qualified to be his dependent and 4 biological children. Meanwhile, the man can enroll other wives on individual basis at the cost of ₦ 12, 066 for a year.

Is there any programme for students of the higher institutions, i.e? The tertiary institutions? Since majority of them are more Than 18 years and cannot enjoy free health under their parents?
Yes, This programme is known as TISHIP: The Tertiary Institutions Social Health Insurance Program.

If any enrollee travels and he/she is involved in any emergency, but has his OHIS Card with him, can such enrollee access care when he is outside Osun State and how?
Yes, such an enrollee will get in touch with HMO/TPA assigned and will give the necessary directives where the enrollee will be treated, and arrangement to settle the bill will be made by the HMO.

Does the scheme cover all ailments?
No, but all basic ailments are covered, note that ailments such as Cancer, etc. are not covered in the scheme. (Psychiatric cases).

What is the emergency number to call, in case one needs to know more information about OHIS?
OHIS emergency No is 0700022556447 the call centre will attend to your call in the language you prefer (English, Yoruba and Pidgin)
Does OHIS exist on Internet such as: Twitter, facebook, Whatsapp, website etc? If yes, let us know the contacts
Yes OHIS Social media address are: a) Facebook: Osunhealthinsurancescheme b) Twitter: @Osunhis c) Website: www.oshia.ng d) Email: info@oshia.ng

How can an enrollee get a new OHIS card, if the first one issued is damaged or lost by mistake?
The enrollee will come to OHIS Headquarters, with a sworn affidavit fill a form requesting for a new OHIS card, stating the reasons, or what happened to the first card. He will be requested to pay a token.

Can an enrollee receive treatment outside the station or state.
Yes, for cases of emergency midwived by the HMO/TPAs

What plan does the scheme have for retirees?
Individual informal sector plan.

Can an enrollee access care without carrying the OHIS Card?
Yes, for cases of emergency.

Does the scheme accommodate overseas treatment
No.

How many times can enrollee attend hospital in a year?
As many times as needed within the provision of the benefit package.

If for a whole year as a principal enrollee, I do not visit the facility I choose to access healthcare, am I entitled to collect a percentage of my premium either formal or informal sector?
The scheme is based on the principle of Social solidarity, where the healthy pays for the sick, and the rich pays for the poor. The Agency pays the Health care provider on monthly basis, on each of the enrollee, whether they access care or not. Anyone who does not visit The facility of his choice throughout the year is not entitled to any returns.

If both husband and wife are civil servants in the scheme who is the children's custodian?
In this case, the wife is given the authority to choose the facility for the children. Children cannot be beneficiaries of both the husband and wife to avoid double capitation payment.

What efforts are made by the Agency (OSHIA) to monitor/supervise the HCPs, to make sure they do the right things expected of them on OHIS enrollees?
There is a department in charge of monitoring the HCPs in OSHIA, Standard & Quality Assurance (SQA). Visitation are done frequently to ensure that the HCPs comply with the rules and regulations embedded in the OHIS benefit packages.

Does your scheme include surgical procedures?
Yes, (e.g Hernioraphy, Appendicytomy, Ceasarian Section etc)

What is Equity fund, who pays the fund and what is it meant for?
This is a contribution from Federal, State and Local Government meant to take care of the vulnerable in the society.



KGSHIA
Brief History of KGSHIA
Kogi State Health Insurance Agency (KGSHIA) was established by law in April 2019 to provide equitable access to quality and affordable healthcare services to all residents of Kogi State through health insurance in order to meet global target of attaining Universal Health Coverage by 2030.


Sequel to the 2015 National Council on Health (NCH) resolution where in states were encouraged to establish State Social Health Insurance Agencies to help the country accelerate the journey to Universal Healthcare Coverage, His Excellency Alhaji Yahaya Bello, the Executive Governor of Kogi State immediately gave the Ministry of Health, a matching order to kick start the process of establishing a state Health Insurance Agency which birthed KGSHIA.

OHIS
The Osun Health insurance scheme (OHIS) was passed into law by the 6th Assembly of Osun State House of Assembly under the leadership of Rt Hon Najeem Salaam on the 30th of October, 2018 and assented to by the then Governor Ogbeni Rauf Adesoji Aregbesola. The Implementation however, was commenced by his predecessor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola. Currently, The Amiable Governor Of Osun State, His Excellency, Gov. Ademola Adeleke expanded the scheme and improved it's operations across the state in line with universal health coverage.
The scheme is aimed at providing affordable & quality healthcare services to residents of the state.

The Software is known as HIP (Health Insurance Platform)
It is developed as a software to support Health Insurance Agencies or Health Management Organizations (HMOs) to manage their health insurance process which includes;
1. Enrollee registration,
2. ⁠Health Provider registration
3. ⁠Claims Management
4. ⁠Finance management
5. ⁠Health Insurance Plans Management
6. ⁠Health Insurance Payment Management

In conclusion, anything about health insurance, it does it for the clients
